He was in what was the old Bryan High School for the
last year. Then they built the new school. Now
that's a bunch of youngsters that had a good time.
They really had a good time. Then he went to A&M. He
was
an unqualified junior. Isn't there some attitude
there? He had to do some extra work in the junior
class. I don't know what that is called. But he
persuaded me to let him go on in. So that's when he
tried to get in. Then he went to Houston and got in.
But he loved airplanes from the time he could. One
of the first words he said was airplane. And I had an
old chair, one of the way back yonder kind, high
back, and I put a seat in the chair that had, it
looked like made of panel wood, but had designs
punched in it. And I gave, he had a box of ten penny
nails and a rubber hammer that he played with. And
one day, he was in Rompers, he, uh, put the nails in
the holes of that chair, just like an airplane. He
says, Daddy, airplane. And he was just airplane
crazy all the time. And he really did make his name
in that airplane. He catered with the brass.
Uh-huh, uh-huh. That sounds pretty good. What
about that? I guess, you know, over the years, I
guess, in taking my history courses and stuff like
that, you know, they always talked about the
depression and things like that and everything.
How did it affect you? We was in a depression. This
don't work. We was in a depression. We didn't know
too much about those kind of things. But we felt it
very keenly. We had to cut down on a lot of things.
And the business... You know, you had to have
gasoline, and the business didn't deteriorate
too much, but it did slow down. But he weathered the
storm. Most people did.
I don't know. Well, let's see. What else do I have
here? What about... What about the community life
here in Bryan College Station? Is Bryan older than
College Station? Oh, yeah. College Station's
just grown up the last few years. It really has? The
Boondall, you know, was the first courthouse.
That's out about two miles, isn't it? Out east of
town. Why did they decide to move it here? Because
the railroad come in. The railroad came in.
Uh-huh. And the railroad had gotten as far as
Milligan, and it came from Milligan then on up
here. But the railroad brought Brian over here.
And Brian was named for a Mr. Brian who had
offsprings at the First National Bank here. Mr.
God brought Mr. What's the Brian boy named?
Travis. Travis Brian. He was his son, wasn't he?
No, he was the second generation. He's the third
generation. And they named the town for him. He
advanced a whole lot of the financial
necessities, you know. And this Mr.
Bryan's father did a lot for Bryan Air Force Base.
And he engineered a collection and got an
airplane. What's the name of that airplane,
Willie Bell?
I'm getting along pretty good with a friend of mine
that's come in, Miss Willie Bell Johnson. She
knows more about it than I do. She's not near as old
as I am.
What about A&M when that started? A&M has grown.
1976. I know that well. 1976. My uncle was born that
year. He went to school after a little while. And
the A&M, well, a lot of the tuitions were paid from
rural districts, paid with... We had wood and
everything out there then. They took meats and
cordwood and different things like that on
payment for the tuitions, you know. And a friend of
mine used to bring wood over there, driving a
four-mural team, you know, bringing cord after
cord. It had a contractor. to get the word for
heating system out there. And then of course it
advanced very early just from boys taking all
courses and each year there would be another type
of education, you know. And so it's just really and
truly outgrown itself in a way. And the first
students were 14 years old when they started out
there. Huh? The first students were 14 years old. I
mean, they took them at 14 years. They took them at
14 years. Then they went to 16.
Well,
is there anything you can think of that I might not
have covered that you'd like to say or whatever?
Well, uh, Of course, we had the Carnegie Library in
Bryan. I believe it was in 1902, and it has outgrown
itself. We now have a new City of Bryan Library, but
the old library, some talk about them tearing it
down, but everybody seemed to want it for a museum,
if nothing else, because it was a donation to the
city. But they are temporarily using it as a
traffic office. And it seems like it's working out
very nicely for that, you see. And then, of course,
we've had trouble having enough water and
everything, but we're still on top, I think, with
everything. And the college dances were always
wonderful. And most always, the gentlemen, the
boys would take their girlfriends out in what they
called, what
is that old nigger man's name? It was a surrey. He
used to take a bunch of them out. Tally, I believe
his name was. It was a tally. Huh? I remember him
talking about a tally. Well, I believe it was Tally
Surrey. And he'd make trip after trip coming to
Bryan. And it was a long way around then. See, this
road has been changed two times since I've been
here to Bryan. It's the shorter way now. But he took
the young folks out. And sometimes some of them are
pretty late getting back in on you. But they used to
have wonderful, wonderful dances, which they
still do. And it's just marvelous the way that they
have been able to do it. We didn't remember
distinctly when the first automobile came to
Bryan. Then for a long time, between Bryan and
College Station, they had the, what do they call
that trolley? Interurban. Interurban. They had
that there. And I went to summer school one summer
out there. And I rode this, rode that. And the depot
was right down, right down here. Well, right at the
old fire station. Was it over there? Right across
over there. No, the inner urban depot. It was at the
fire station. It was a little bit further over
where the Eagle office is. Yeah, where the Eagle
office is now. The inner urban used to have that
office there. And they run... Trolley cars. Every
half hour, I believe. And I got my transportation
to school out there on that trolley.
And that's about all. That's the only way. Horse
bugging horse, you know, of course.
Due to the fact the railroad ran through Bryan made
the sights even more favorable. But when the
commissioners arrived and found saloons on every
corner. The commissioners moved further out
until historians say the commissioners came to a
place thick with dewberries, and here they stuck a
stake in the ground and said, here we'll build a
college. You ought to have that, isn't it? Yeah.
Talking about that, was Brown a pretty wild town?
Had lots of saloons. It had worlds of saloons, and
as I said, every... three, four doors was a saloon.
We were never, in going to town, we were never, we
were always told never look in a livery stable and
never look in a saloon. But we'd cock our eye
around. We had a livery stable right on Main
Street. One big livery stable was on, Tabor's
livery stable was on Main Street. But we had ever so
many saloons just, and they, you know, It wasn't a
while. I think we are worse now than we used to be.
Really? Mm-hmm. We never had a lock on our doors in
days gone by. And within the last few years, why,
they've had to put locks on everything they own. I
know, yeah. And we really and truly, I remember
many a night. When we lived on North Bryan Street,
one morning we waked up, Every window in the house,
every door in the house was wide open. And on our
front porch was a row of transient cotton pickers
seeping on our front porch, and we didn't know it.
Golly. I'll bet there was 10 people, 10 men out
there on our front porch, and we didn't know it. So
that's how bad we were then. But we wouldn't do it
today. What other things that you've noticed, you
know, the town or the people's attitudes or things
like that have changed? Very much so. There used to
be an awful lot of man-to-man attitude, you know.
But I think now it's dollar-to-dollar. I might be
wrong. I don't do too much trading myself. I've
been here since 67, so I don't know too much about
the family. I mean, I've been up here at the hotel.
But
I have. I've weathered the storm pretty good. I'll
be 90 years over in December, and that's a lot of
years. That's a lot of years, and you're still a
little active.